the United Nations Secretary General
Antonio guz has renewed calls for a
cation of hostilities in Gaza as
Millions observe the holy month of
Ramadan though Ramadan has begun The
Killing bombing and bloodshed continue
in
Gaza we recently entered the six months
since the amas terror attacks in Israel
and the catastrophic Israel Onslaught in
Gaza
began my strongest appeal today is to
honor the spirit of Ramadan by silencing
the
guns and removing all obstacles to
ensure the delivery of life-saving Aid
at the speed and massive scale required
let's now speak to Marwan bishara he's
Al jazer senior political analyst Marwan
you're joining us from London this
evening uh thanks for your time so Maran
well there is no cessation of
hostilities in Gaza the Secretary
General is calling for one and and what
we see in occupied East Jerusalem around
the AKA mosque more restrictions heavy
security presence are we looking at an
explosive situation um across the
territories this
Ramadan it's very possible I think uh
it's like a pressure cooker and not just
in Palestine I think throughout the
region anger is increasing in fact the
mood is boiling throughout Palestine but
also in the region although various Arab
regimes have been able to contain the
situation thus far but I think somewhere
between faith and famine I think just
things are deteriorating fast and uh in
the meanwhile what is going on and I
think we need to underline that because
I've heard that several times the last
few days in fact weeks and months is
that we keep talking about as the
Secretary General of the United Nation
just did about cessation of hostilities
and everyone around the world talks
about a permanent ceasefire but really I
think we should start talking about
ending the aggression against Kaza this
is no longer a question of two parties
fighting whether symmetrically or
asymmetrically or dis symmetrically this
is an Israeli aggression on Palestine
notably on Gaza but also on the West
Bank and East Jerusalem as you just uh
reported and I think that aggression
goes on
unabated Western supported and clearly
uh there's no way out of it unless we
start admitting that this is not about
some dialogue going on in Cairo or Doha
or Paris or elsewhere this is not just
about another
acrobatic uh diplomacy this is about
International pressure to end the
aggression if you don't end the
aggression I think things are really
going to get worse moving forward right
and look Maran let's just listen to what
the US President Joe Biden said uh
earlier this week I mean he criticized
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu for failing to prevent
civilian deaths in Gaza making the
comments while he was speaking to an
American TV network but at the same time
he reaffirmed his support for Israel
let's
listen I'm never going to leave Israel
the defense of Israel is still critical
so there's no red line I'm going to cut
off all weapons so they don't have the
Iron Dome to protect them they don't
have but there's red lines that if he
crosses in the he cannot have 30,000
more Palestinians dead how are we to
understand these comments because they
seem to be somewhat contradictory the
red line is uh for Benjamin Netanyahu to
go into but at the same time Biden says
I will never leave
Israel yes uh well there's a number of
ways of trying to dissect this one there
is definitely increasing heat between uh
the Prime Minister and the president and
there's clear differences about the way
moving forward but I think uh Biden is
uh underlining a change of tone not a
change of policy and that explains a bit
the way he sounds as if he's speaking
from both sides of his mouth on the one
hand he talks about red lines on the
other hand he talks about continuing
basically unconditional support from the
outset he made the mistake of making
America's support and conditional it
should have been conditional if at all
but for for more than five months now
Israel has gotten the support the arms
and the money but it has rejected the
advice of the American president and
that's why he's getting a bit frustrated
with the Israeli Prime Minister because
he does not want to see as he said
another 30,000 casualties or dead people
in Gaza the question is to the American
president is 5,000 okay is another 2,000
children is another one
child dying in Gaza out of starvation
okay for him I mean why 30 why another
30,000 which really goes a long way to
explain that while the Americans are
changing their tone because the the
Israelis are not listening to them they
are yet to change policy and that sounds
to me like they are and still complicit
in the war in Gaza right so then these
differences that you refer to between
Biden and between
Netanyahu do they really matter when it
comes to the war and the trajectory of
the war you're saying that it seems to
be that they both have the same policy
going
forward I think it matters only in terms
of uh Styles and in terms of strategy
but not in terms of end goal the
Americans also want to see Hamas
defeated and uh they also do not want to
repeat
of another October 7 as they would have
it but they don't want the war to
continue as it has been wage the past
five months they cannot um they cannot
tolerate more of the same casualties
more of the same humiliation by the
Israelis and more of the same uh
basically complicity in genocide if you
will so they want to wind down the war
they want to take it in a different
course they want a ceasefire even if
it's five weeks leading to another
ceasefire even if it's another five
weeks and they want to start winding the
war that way and if Israel must continue
its operations against Hamas it will be
surgical according to the Americans the
Israelis reject all of these Notions
they want to wage the war they want to
wage the war they don't care about the
casualties in fact I'd rather think they
prefer higher casualties among the
Palestinians because they would like
them to be ethnically cleansed meaning
they would would like to push as many of
them out as possible they certainly
remain vengeful towards the people in
Gaza that kind of vengefulness might
have been also an American idea back in
October 15 when Biden visited Israel and
he told them go get justice but five
months later I mean something got a give
here Gaza is destroyed more than 100,000
casualties the world more or less
remains silent the international public
opinion is boiling and hence unless
something really gives in the immediate
future I would say we're going to see
major famine in Gaza we're going to see
major death in silence in Gaza and I
think that genocide is going to continue
to
unravel I just think that that is going
to Echo somewhere in the middle east in
the rest of Palestine and God knows what
could happen Okay Maran bashara thank
you so much
every